cool thanks caitlin um just a few things
to kick it off and then i'll let that go
we already have quite a few questions
that have come in um first of all fun
session for the saster team we we run a
lot of saster on canva uh i did some
tweet the other day it was something
like
adobe's a 300 billion dollar company
making tools for designers and canva is
a 40 billion dollar tool um when your
designer won't finish a project
and i know it's a bit of a joke but i
really feel like canva is our second or
third and fourth and fifth designer on
team saster and we we love canva um
canvas always on time canva doesn't
complain
canva has a lot of fresh ideas so it's
always fun to have uh to have a leader
from one of the products that we run a
whole global community on here which is
great um and zach you were you were so
early at canva right you joined in 2013
that's like uh that's that's close to
day zero wasn't or was it day zero when
did you join uh yeah yeah great to be
here and i'm awesome to see everyone uh
virtually i'm uh sort of here here in
sydney at the moment i wish i could be
um with some of you over there on the
ground there but yeah i joined
a couple months prior to launch so i
joined uh and then sort of let out our
first funding announcement um with my
kind of early pr hat on and i have
been
sort of part of furniture ever since
yeah and you've worked here and i want
to make sure we got some incredible
slides here on lessons learned but just
so we introduced you you worked your way
up right from early employee head of
marketing and then to cmo right what's
what's a little bit story and especially
these days it seems like cmo has a
half-life sometimes measured in
single-digit months there's so much
turnover at the top but you're you're
nearing a decade right at the company
what what have you learned in how'd you
do it and what have you learned in terms
of being enduring in the role
uh
yeah i think i've had a um you know an
amazing journey and learned uh so much
along the way and
i guess
i started in a pr role and um you know
as you'll see in in a little bit i've
sort of hopped around all over the place
and had had the opportunity to
do our customer service and build our
customer service team and then launch
our philippines office
i had had my time in product management
and worked on what's now canva pro our
sort of premium products i spent a
couple years in uh in
building out our people function so
scaling uh you know everything that came
with that and then
for the last two years i've
been back in the marketing spaces we've
been they're really investing in growing
things um globally there and yeah for me
it's definitely come back to um
uh always kind of jumping onto the next
biggest problem that needs to be solved
and um you know
i've definitely loved the ability to
kind of learn new things along the way
as well um
so yeah i think it's definitely part of
what
what it sort of takes to um to grow with
a company like canva sort of a different
beast every few months or
you know certainly
um
along the way so uh yeah a lot of change
let me ask you just one question and
then i do want to make sure we dig into
lessons learned in hyper growth as canva
approaches
a stunning billion dollars in ar which
is crazy
but it sounds like from your background
i could have this wrong but i'm just
looking at so many startups you might be
the classic
overachiever generalist now you came in
through communications you came in
through marketing so that's where you
started right close to a decade ago but
we all anyone that's been a founder
gravitates to a couple folks that they
can throw into something like run the
philippines office run people run this
because they need that person that's
smart that has the dna and that can roll
with it right it sounds like that's you
but sometimes was that you and then
sometimes what i find is those folks get
frustrated because as the company gets
to be five hundred thousand two thousand
people there's not always a a clear path
for that person anymore so so was that
you and how did you how did you ride
that all the way to a billionaire or
almost a billionaire
uh
yeah i don't know like i definitely i
love
learning and i've loved being thrown
at new challenges along the way but i
you know i often get asked uh
you know if
if i miss the early days or uh you know
start my preference for a particular
point in time and like i don't know i
have to say um i have loved like each of
the different phases and actually i'm
probably having the most fun i've ever
had now i mean it's definitely a very
different you know organization at 2 000
people and comes with um you know a very
different way of building and getting
things done um but i am yeah i might be
the exception but i am i i kind of uh
have enjoyed enjoyed that as well
good all right well let's talk about
i'll i'll be quiet now for a while
lessons learned in hyper growth so zach
share us share us a little bit of what
you've learned on this incredible
journey to a billionaire r just about
awesome yeah let's get into it um uh
guess
thanks again for um for having me uh i
for maybe those of you that are not
familiar canva
we really started with this this mission
to
ultimately democratize design and really
empower everyone around the world by
making it accessible to everyone we've
grown a huge amount uh over the past
sort of eight years or so on the left
you can see that's a um a very early
photo um if you um if you sort of squint
you can see a dorky uh shot of me um
there hold on which one are you
uh and the uh the
character okay your style you've had
your style has evolved over the years
like i see it right
yeah that's right not better or worse
it's just evolved yeah
and then you know this is our team just
our australian team in 2020 so
uh we've grown uh over the years i guess
to give you a bit of a snapshot of where
things are at today uh we now have more
than 60 million people creating with
canva every single month all around the
world
we've got a global team as well so
there's there's sort of 2 000 people you
know across australia the us the
philippines china
throughout europe uh as well and
as you mentioned uh we're on track to
reach a billion dollars in revenue um
towards the end of this year um which is
um which is really exciting uh progress
i guess uh you know as we were talking
about what might be uh the best and the
most useful uh to share today
we thought it might be worth uh diving
into you know a few lessons i guess
learned along the way so
picked five um lessons that i'll i'll
get into um you know the next kind of 20
minutes or so and so
number one um i thought i'd talk a
little bit about building community uh
it's been something that um has uh has
really been part of our story since um
since day one and
i guess
you know now we're um we're incredibly
fortunate to have uh you know a
phenomenal i'm incredibly engaged
community all around the world and so
you know on the right there you can see
just a snapshot of some of the um the
video content out there there's
literally you know millions of pieces of
content um you know video tutorials on
youtube blog posts
content being created all the time uh
online if you jump on that link
canva.love you can see this is you know
a twitter stream of people from our
community uh sharing and i think this is
really you know something that um that's
that's been kind of due to our heart but
also a really key part of um ultimately
our success you know a large um part of
our actually the majority of our growth
still comes from you know word of mouth
and organic and so that's been a
critical uh level of growth over the
years i guess some of the things that i
think have really helped
you know unlock that
uh that
really started back back in the early
days so the photo at the top there is
actually um a photo of one of our very
first design workshops and
this was our first office uh in surrey
hills the very sort of small boardroom
there was you know a handful of desks
outside there as well um and
back in the early days this is
pre-launch we'd actually invite members
of our community in uh and and sort of
give them uh early access to canva um
and basically take them through a sort
of design workshop uh and this became
such an
incredible way to get uh early feedback
on the product and i can definitely tell
you um there's no uh better objectivity
than seeing you know people reacting in
real time and trying to teach people a
product you know you see what they are
what they understand what they don't
what they struggle with
i mean so
uh you know that really helped us
iterate through um
the the sort of early phases through
launch cliff myself
um you know mel would sort of all be in
there running uh running workshops and
um you know it's actually uh it's really
uh fun to see
uh how that uh threads really continued
uh you know as we've scaled this the
photo down below is actually a photo of
our
bright and shiny new canvas space uh in
our office in in surrey hills in sydney
and we've actually launched a um
uh a community cafe and space where
we're now offering um you know design
workshops uh all the time and sort of
open that up as a community space so
that's been something that you know has
really um has scaled as we've grown
there as well
uh
another aspect that we really focused on
early on was
really investing in pr um and content
marketing uh i guess we we definitely
didn't have uh any any budget back then
um and you know uh had sort of
identified
uh
the the sort of early um success that we
were having was really with social media
marketers and content creators and so a
lot of my time in the early days was
spent actually writing content um you
know whether it was about visual
communication or
building your brand on social media a
little fortunate you know just just
through writing content i guess to um to
get picked up by uh you know some of the
blogs in the space like social media
examiner and others and um you know a
lot along the way i'm really telling
that that story of what we're up to
we're uh we're definitely
a bit of a an exception to the raw being
an australian company um you know
launching i think we had the largest
kind of seed funding round um at that
point in the time time uh and so really
uh you know identifying those sort of
interesting tidbits um and and sort of
pitching pitching press around uh those
as well
was there like back in 2014 when we
writing this was what was the 10x
feature for canva in the early days like
what what what did you win were you
doing something on social media that was
hard to do in other apps or what was
that what was that step function that
that wasn't in the market back then
yeah
like the the the products
uh
back then
uh we
you know we launched really focused on
social media uh we called them you know
doctypes but um you know we had
a suite of templates that you could go
and choose from it was really easy to
kind of edit and create things like
facebook posts or your you know your
your email headers and things like that
and i think it was actually just by
making that process really really easy
um you know canva
had uh we launched with
um
you know this idea of like integrating
everything into into one page so you
could just go to one one one place you
had the templates there was some you
know stock photography um that was you
know free or a dollar to use
uh it was really easy to kind of publish
that like in the in the right format um
for um
you know at the end states i think it
was just about really solving that
problem
really uh really well early on and you
know a little bit later on we um we
launched i remember when we um we
launched uh
what's now camera pro
uh we came up with this feature called
magic resize uh and that was um that was
just like an incredibly popular feature
and it was just something i think that
um social media marketers in particular
really struggled with you know you kind
of go and design a facebook post and you
have to resize it manually um previously
for
instagram or twitter or tick tock or you
know whatever other formats are around
at the time so um you know it's things
like that that i guess saved a lot of
time and made it um made it really easy
to do some of those things with the
click
uh
and i guess you know i think that uh as
we're sort of talking about
really comes back to realizing just what
a a driver of growth your core product
can can be
we
continue to this day to have the vast
majority of our community using canberra
for free
and it's always been you know part of
the philosophy and the mission and
something really dear to um to you know
mel smells heart has been that anyone
that wants to access canva no matter
where they are in the world whether
they're employed or not should be able
to use the tools and so
uh we
uh you know you can you can do
um pretty much anything that you want to
or create anything that you'd want to in
canva for free um and then we've always
had this this idea of uh you know
offering
additional tiers or additional products
for people that have um you know
particularly the use case or um you know
have to have the means to pay um i guess
something else that we did early on was
really focused on uh like user testing
um those early flows and we did it
through things like the uh
you know the workshops where we get
people in but also through tools like
usertesting.com and i'd highly recommend
this for uh you know any product folks
um you can basically get people around
the world to test out your you know
application products and give you
feedback
in real time
and we actually put our very first
version of the products um up on user
testing and
uh it takes like it was um we had
terrible feedback and
uh it was it was it was it was
interesting because it wasn't was not
the products um itself like the core
functionality was right but we just
hadn't nailed
some of the ui and the onboarding
experience and so i remember you know
the the team um and mel literally going
through you know dozens and dozens and
dozens of tests and iterations uh we've
got hundreds of tested iterations that
actually refine that onboarding
experience which meant you know by the
time we launched we were getting um
uh
you know everyone saying that they they
love the product and it was definitely a
journey um you know the last smile um to
sort of get there um the other example
i'd give here um
you'll see a few uh sort of graphics
there from huffington post
um and i like to talk about like
building your product with your
community
uh this was probably about 2015 and we'd
just got a got a tweet or an email from
one of the the designers at huffington
post basically they're saying that the
team were using canva and really loving
it but they had this big problem uh and
they were keen to see if we could help
solve it and
the problem you know for them was
huffington post as a newsroom had um you
know hundred hundreds of different
journalists and social media areas
creating content all the time and what
that meant was things were going out
with the wrong colors or fonts or logos
and so they reached out and sort of
you know fortunately we was able to uh
to get together with them and and sort
of have a bit of a conversation and um
we realized like what they really needed
um
was uh templates and to be able to
create you know
set templates or on brand for their team
and this kind of coincided with um you
know the time that we're actually
building you know our premium version
and so
we ended up um
piloting the concept or testing the
concept of templates with them so hack
together this wordpress page that you
can see and and those designs they um
they
you know made it made it easy for their
team internally to basically click on
one of those and um and and leverage a
template and that actually became a
prototype for that early product as well
um you know it's a fantastic day of
having the post along for that on that
journey uh you know giving us feedback
as uh as we went uh there as well
uh number two the second lesson i guess
is prioritizing just in time learning so
we talked a little bit about this
earlier uh i guess i've had probably a
non-typical journey uh canva and uh
that's meant
you know moving from pr and comms into
products um spending some time building
our people organization hr
internal comms coaching
um
recruitment things like that and then
more recently stepping back into uh
marketing as we've been investing
uh in scaling that
and i guess something
uh you know just just something that
could be more true for a company like
canva and many startups is
uh you know changes is the norm and and
what that that really requires i think
is a culture of learning and you know
something i think that uh
has been really important for me and i
guess you know we really try and foster
with with the team is um you know no
matter who you are
you always need to be learning and
growing and you know an analogy i like
to to use is you might be the the best
person at um
a specific field and sort of joining the
team today um you know totally
might be an individual contributor you
might be leading a team of 10 but in in
two years um that t might be 40 people
and um you know literally for everyone
across canberra um you'll very soon be
in the biggest role of your life if
you're not already and
the only way to sort of uh succeed and
thrive and grow there is um to
to approach things as a beginner and um
and and really uh be open to learning
and growing and
uh and and you know that's that's a
critical part of um of scaling uh along
the way
um
and
there's this great um
you know saying uh there's actually a an
awesome blog post about this um
from
uh fingers on first round uh but you're
saying you know of
of handing over your lego being just
such a critical part of uh of of growing
uh at a startup and i um you know i i
couldn't echo that uh more truly
um i guess it's definitely been true for
me
uh you know back to me back in the early
days i i did all about customer service
um when we first launched and i remember
that started to take up you know an hour
each day and then before long it was
taking up half my day um and you know
cliff said to me uh we really need you
to to focus on
um you know the the next things we need
to figure out how to uh how to get
someone else to take that on and so um
very very fortunately we had um the
incredible hazel who's still with us
today in the philippines and sahara and
i started to work together and she took
on a lot of the customer service and
then we ended up opening the office um
in the philippines and um there's now an
incredible uh team of hundreds of people
uh doing that every day and so uh
handing over the lego i guess the
creative team you know something
something similar to where we um you
know we decided uh
as we were scaling marketing that that
was something really important to keep
in house but we built that um you know
with with our
creative director and others um
literally from
us uh kind of hacking together and
piloting our first um you know ads when
we um when we launched them
uh to now you know having some of the
best people uh in terms of video and
production and design um and really
having a world-class agency and so um
you know that's a constant part of the
journey
the other point i'd make here is just uh
you really need to
um you know pick your next goal and
focus on testing and learning and then
rapidly scaling
i guess in 2013
we were in one language which was
english um
uh and in 2015 i remember uh as a
company we set this kind of seemingly
you know crazy goal in the next year of
being in 20 languages and i remember
that the goal just kind of blew my mind
at the time because it just seemed so
big and unachievable
and then
uh
what we what we did was actually set the
goal of
you know on the path to being in 20
languages we need to launch in one
language and so set the goal of
launching in spanish by the end of 2015
and what that did was
it gave you know the whole team and the
whole company something to rally towards
it was something that wasn't too big but
impossible but uh in in solving for
spanish it actually meant we had to
build you know translation and
localization infrastructure we had to
re-engineer the code base we had to hire
translators um and so we figured out a
lot of the processes and the systems and
then um you know tackled the 20
languages and then by 2017 that goal uh
reached reached a hundred languages uh
but really was a great example of um you
know you have to start start with
something and figure it out before you
can scale
was the goal to expand in other geos or
was it
for
customers and users that were
multilingual right that had a
multilingual breedership or user base
which was the primary driver
yeah good question it was uh
for us it was about reaching
a much broader community around the
world i guess you know we uh
as we were looking at you know what was
going to unlock the next level of growth
for us over the next few years it was um
it was very apparent that by being in
english we were we were limited um you
know to kind of 20 um
of the world i'm not 25 of the world um
and so
uh yeah it's really really about that
and and you know the mission for
canberra all the way along
being to empower the whole world to
design and so um being being available
in all those countries and languages was
a big part of that mission
uh
number three i guess building on
uh what we were sort of talking about
with with social media i guess is
just this idea of really focusing in on
a niche
or a niche
apologies to my um australian accent
there um but really focusing on
uh you know a specific use case and so
for us early on that was some social
media content this is the very first
version of canva which uh you'll notice
looks a little bit um outdated these
days
uh i guess going from um from social
media to
you know over over time we've really
expanded the product and you can now
create
anything from presentations to print
products websites infographics uh et
cetera and um you know it's really
exciting these days to see things like
presentations is actually our
our largest use case and how fast it's
growing and
alongside things like video and other
content types as well
uh and and i guess what this kind of
comes back to is just finding something
you can solve extremely well before you
move on to the next thing so for us you
know focusing on social media marketers
meant um we
uh really immersed ourselves in that
community and um you know went to lots
of social media events and a big social
media conference in
san diego all the time and
creating new templates that were perfect
making sure we're building features and
use cases doing content marketing uh
really understanding that holistically
and then once we did that we're able to
just scale things out and we've now
replicated that across a whole bunch of
different industries
um
uh
one one really good example of which is
newsrooms media and newsrooms and so
about two years ago we um we really
identified that this was another um
awesome use case for for canva um you
know following the sort of huffington
post example
uh newsrooms have
uh
an incredible amount of content that
they're needing to produce they're um
they're generally you know understaffed
and uh you know struggle um with the
volume uh that need needs to be created
and so
um we
saw canva as a perfect use case we
actually hired um
this fantastic journalist ex-journalist
ex-foreign correspondent uh here in
australia jonathan and his uh his kind
of crazy big goal um that was set
was to reach short to get camera to
every newsroom in australia um in that
year and he did a um exceptional job of
that and you know we're now i'm used to
in newsrooms around the world um
as you can see here and it was the same
approach to really get in uh have have
people that or you know someone like
jonathan that really understands that
world spend time in newsroom building
templates content educational materials
you know figuring out the um you know
the whole journey there
and really tailoring the product
for those folks
uh number four
um designing for the future and so
uh we touched on this just just before
uh but something that struck us
a few years ago um you know as we were
thinking about what was the next chapter
for canva was this um this you know this
stat that um the vast majority of people
don't uh use canva uh in english and
actually more and more people are coming
on uh onto the internet for the first
time um every day and the majority of
them coming on languages other than
english too
and i guess
um you know very uh proud to share that
these days um more than 80 of our
community use canva in a language uh
other than english so you know our
community is truly global
these days
uh you know with markets like brazil and
india
and others really being you know right
up there
i guess that that's come back from
you're focusing you know on on that in
terms of language localization but also
uh you know more deeply in the product
experience so investing in building out
our content and temperate libraries um
you know making sure that we have the
right integrations and the right user
experience um you know building
the the right to left experience for
arabic and things like that
um so you know translation is definitely
just just scratching the surface and
like that's been a journey that we've
continued to build
build on over over the past few years
but you know from those foundations that
we laid um
do you do canva pro and enterprise are
you pushing them as much in these other
languages and other geos
as much as you do in english based
uh it's it's a mix so
um i guess
we
you know we definitely see different
markets being at different different
stages and
also different markets having
you know different audiences for example
in india
a lot of our successes come with small
business owners you know people kind of
running running a business on their
phone um you know it's a very different
kind of uh category to um
uh
you know to say australia or the u.s
where we're really um you know starting
to see i'm gonna invest a lot more um
you know the enterprise and the
organizational level um and then you
know you pick another market like mexico
and we've had just phenomenal uptake um
in education there so you know schools
and universities uh have have really
taken to
like our education our product
productivity so it is definitely there's
differently different different patterns
and sort of different use cases that
where i'm always saying
and how many do you have do you have
different product marketing teams in
these different geos and different gms
how
if it's your team or otherwise how do
you how do you divide that up at scale
yeah we've i guess definitely focused on
uh what are the things that we
uh can do globally um
and really focused on that
infrastructure and i think that that's
really been um you know a key part of
building the the engine to localize
content and um you know make sure that
the products available um and then we've
definitely um you know invested in sort
of local teams um you know as well
whether it's the team in the philippines
have done an amazing job over the past
um you know 18 months of really focusing
in on that market and um
have
done you know a great amount in terms of
the education space and the small
business and freelancer community there
um you know building building that in
china we've got a team on the ground um
as well and you know other teams um you
know in different markets around around
the world as well yeah
um
uh i guess we we have this um
uh little heuristic
internally which i really love as just a
mental model um as well
around this idea of you know uh
building building and scaling and when
we talk about uh these two axes uh of
growth uh for canva
on one hand it's um picking fruit and
you know that's kind of
to use the analogy that's like these
sort of short term optimizations or or
really leveraging you know what what
you've built in the past for for growth
um you know uh this year or this month
or whatever it might be
and a lot of our success today actually
comes from you know things that we we
allowed that laid the foundations for
you know months if not not years earlier
um and it's really important to kind of
balance um doing that in the short term
in the here and now with also planting
the the next seeds for the future and um
you're thinking about what what's ahead
and what are the spaces that we need to
be building products for or really
setting the foundations for and we say
um you know use that use that mental
model to prioritize and make sure that
we're investing on both fronts
uh i guess
you know one uh one
piece of advice i'd have as well is um
it's just not being afraid to challenge
the status quo and i guess every company
and organization is is different and
i know that there can be the temptation
to just sort of copy um you know what
you see from from other organizations or
um
you know there's this great great quote
i
love too of um you're not not not
comparing your uh
uh
behind the scenes reel with um you know
and other companies to the high real um
you know what you see
uh
from from other organizations um
publicly will always look a little
different to the reality uh internally
as well and so just focusing on what's
right for you and your culture and um
you know your team uh as well
uh and i guess that that's been you know
something that's been really intentional
for for canberra as well we've
baked in a lot of those philosophies in
internally and we very much have a focus
on teams internally and have done you
know ever since the early days and so
it's all about
teams really working together and having
a shared you know big goal
for each team across the organization
you know we view um you know any kind of
uh
hierarchy or um you know we call it
coaching internally but your role as a
coach is actually to make your team i
know the people that you support uh
successful uh
and and you know maintaining that sort
of agility and and really uh having you
know teams that can adapt and grow um
you know because there's been a big big
part of our culture
uh
again yeah a good quote i think just um
sort of reflecting on uh
that comes comes from jeff bezos but
you know the fact that results today are
actually baked in um you know
years ago
uh
and some things take a long time as well
so
i guess
you know some some advice here is really
just thinking about uh your industry or
your vertical um and where it will be in
a few years uh from now and i think that
you know that was definitely watch on
the light for us on international and
localization i'm equally from from a
product point of view uh we um you know
we knew back in 2013 that the future of
design would be online and then it'd be
collaborative uh as well but that um was
a huge technical feat and so it was
actually you know there was this um
you can see some some tweaks here
there's actually uh you know a feature
we launched which which meant that
people for the first time could
collaborate in real time uh on campus
and it was actually something that our
cto um dave had said as a goal um you
know eight years earlier and it just
been this kind of incredible technical
feat um to to get there and it was a
huge milestone and obviously
uh you know our community um could have
been happier to have the feature launch
but um definitely one of those things
that required persistence and
perseverance and um you know really
making sure we knew um where we needed
to get to or sort of investing in
planting those seeds um
yeah and then i guess just finally the
last um you know lesson that i wanted to
touch on was really just around uh
culture
uh
and and just you know how important
building the the right culture for
um
your startup is
uh
i guess um love to get a bit of a show
of hands or um you know any comments if
anyone's read this book the power of
moments
um
i know i know look it does look good it
does
yeah i uh if there's one one sort of
thing that i'd leave you with i highly
recommend checking out this this book
it's um guided so much of you know how
we've thought about
uh creating experience um for our
community uh and and you know the the
journey um both for the team internally
but also for for our users as well
uh and i guess the core premise is that
people are actually willing to put up
with a lot
of uh
of
stuff if there's um these really
outstanding moments um you know in an
experience and i guess the um there's
this fantastic example that was given in
the book so the magic castle hotel out
there uh was actually one of the top
hotels on tripadvisor for many many
years uh i think it was like the number
three hotel in in la and looking at it
you wouldn't have thought so um
you know it was kind of like average
hotel rooms it was
know nothing nothing super special at
least the outside but uh what this hotel
uh did and the reason that it was so
popular was it really focused on the
experiences and so you go to check in
and there'd be a magician at the um the
foyer entertaining the kids
um you know down by the pool there was a
uh like the popsicle hotline you could
um you could pick up this red phone and
whatever like any flavored popsicle um
you know delivered to uh your poolside
there was like this library of dvds and
board games and all sorts of stuff for
the uh the kids um you know to use and
it was like actually through thinking
through the experience um
this hotel did an amazing job and became
really really popular and i guess it's
something that um you know we've kind of
carried through uh to thinking about how
we create those moments internally
i guess one of our
one of our goals sorry one of our values
internally is to set crazy big goals and
then make uh make them happen i like to
kind of flip that and talk about uh you
know set set crazy big goals and and
then make sure you celebrate them and
it's been something we've done uh all
the way along uh we used to go out um
when we hit our first million uh users
actually uh
uh i think the question got put out to
someone on the team you know what do you
think we should do to celebrate and um
the idea was uh to go out for a a lunch
um and then have shoot souls and it
actually became a bit of a tradition for
you know the first few million users we
don't we'd get the team out get together
for every million uh users and before
long we were um we were there was too
many of us and we uh we couldn't fit
into the restaurant and so we had to
kind of like iterate and evolve that
celebration um
you know
for scale
i guess another example you know when we
all shifted online last year it was also
a big moment in time for our uh our
marketing team as well we launched our
very first advertising uh globally and
um launched firstly with a tv test uh in
the us and so
you know to do something fun and
celebrate after a whole lot of hard work
we actually decided to do a virtual road
trip stopping at each of the ten cities
that we were on we were on air and had
you know someone from the team uh do a
sort of uh a zoom tour of the city and
we made cocktails and um you know did
did like an art class and all sorts of
things along the way which was um
a whole stack of fun
um similarly you know with that with our
birthdays as well um up in the top we
are we used to have this kind of bizarre
tradition um
uh which uh the only thing more bizarre
than kind of watching it is experiencing
it but on your birthday used to get up
forced to to jump up on a table and then
put on a crown while the whole company
would um would dance around and sydney
happy birthday
um and it was just kind of a wacky
tradition that um that made people feel
really special on their birthday and i
guess you know another thing of um
uh it didn't didn't last uh
forever you know at some point we
couldn't fit everyone on one floor
anymore and so we started to think about
how he scaled that um as well and so
introduced um our birthday wheel i'm
here which uh you know now this is done
virtually but when it's your birthday um
everyone gets invited to uh to spend the
birthday will and get something special
tonight to celebrate and i guess
this is just
a sort of uh view of um
we uh even as we've scaled we've tried
to keep you know those different
elements um and make it make it special
um
along the way um as well so
uh yeah i'll sort of leave it um at that
but i guess just to kind of quickly
recap those takeaways i'm really
focusing on building community and
prioritizing just in time learning uh
you know
as as you scale and grow focusing in on
a niche before going wide really
envisaging and thinking about the future
and making sure you're both planting
seeds and harvesting food and
finally uh really thinking about you
know creating those peak moments and
and the right culture to curate
for your company too
cool
zach was that that was amazing i know we
have just a couple minutes left but we
did get earlier some really good
questions on
from twitter and linkedin you hit a few
of them but i thought maybe i can just
get to two or three of them before we
run out of time the first one um your
funnel right so funnels often work
differently than we think now that we
see more companies going about you've
got 60 million free users right
but how do they convert um do do they do
they convert linearly do folks that do
enterprise and pro quickly fall through
the funnel do most free never convert
like how did how does this funnel uh
work at canva
yeah i guess
we
we've always thought uh
should we talk about a bottoms-up
approach on canva and i think that has
really meant really prioritizing and
investing in that free experience which
i which i mentioned um earlier so you
know the vast majority of people uh use
canva um for free and yeah and then
we
you know we see people that are getting
a lot of value then uh then upgrade um
and you know use us individually you
know as a pro
user or with a small team and so um you
know we sort of see that uptake and then
up into into enterprise um as well and
so we definitely see like the product
being um the the catchment uh you know
for that as people use the product and
love it um like that ultimately uh you
know sees us
sort of trade up that pyramid and we've
seen that with you know things like
fortune 500 organizations as well where
um you know many of the fortune 500s
will have thousands of um you know
individual users or small teams on the
platform and then you know for the
organization then it's about actually
bringing them together and sort of
unlocking um some of the power of
enterprise so that bottoms up approach
has been um so even today as you get to
a billion that the enterprise piece is
organic you're mining the the free or
even pro base to find the larger
accounts is it is that class do you have
an active sales team do they hunt the
long tail or how do you how do you how
do you how do you build these into
enterprise accounts
yeah we do have a sales um uh sales team
uh as as well but um you know that the
the sort of scale of our products um we
have 60 million people designing every
month um people people you know loving
and using the product is definitely um
where we see you know the demand coming
for those uh many of the the enterprise
um customers that we've um we've got on
board uh you know have done so because
people in the team um use us uh
individually you know or have used us in
their personal life and sort of bring it
in and so for us with with sales too
it's really about um just helping uh
those organizations um like unlock the
value uh that they need to or or um
uh
you know solely solving the problems
that they have so it's really about just
making sure we um
we
we solve for the customer pain point
there
cool
and then maybe just one one or two more
because we were out of time um so
maybe it's less of a less interesting
than a billion and are but canva has
pay-per-use and monthly plans is there
what what have you learned there can
these little one dollars uh for for
for an image does it can that really
move the needle at a billionaire or what
how do you why why do you have both paid
versions
yeah it's a good question we
uh i think a few things we
want to make sure that there's like
there's
a variety of choice uh for people you
know there might be people that are
coming to create you know that that once
off graphic uh in canva and we want to
solve um you know for their use case and
um they equally might need a um you know
stock photo and so uh when we launched
canva um you know the one dollar photo
license was something that hadn't been
done before and so yeah because you're
using it within canva you know it means
we can kind of control the the usage and
so um
it's a dollar uh per use um
so i guess there's that use case and
then you know without pro subscription
you um you actually get
uh access to sort of uh unlimited um
uh content in terms of imagery and
things like that so we'll continue to
offer both uh but a lot of people you
know might use the one dollar image and
then um actually decide that uh they
don't want to
subscribe to pro because um you know it
makes sort of sense um if they're
creating um multiple graphics yeah
so originally it was disruptive right
but maybe now it's it's a stepping stone
potentially to becoming a subscript a
subscriber afterwards right
yeah yeah exactly
okay last one there there's so many good
ones although we did hit hit about half
of in your presentation but just last
one and maybe
you know like in the last 18 months
communities become really hot right
community startups community as a
strategy in marketing vps of community
you touched on in the beginning
what what as a as the cmo what is
community is it more than happy users
like what does it really mean um
60 million use of course you have you
have happy i mean word of mouth is the
majority of revenue what is it how do
you invest in community and how is it
different than happy users and happy
customers
i think for us
community has really been
uh as you've seen it's been like
absolutely pivotal um to our growth and
i think yeah at its core it's actually
uh
being close to
you know the people around the world
that actually use your product and um
and and understanding uh
uh you know their problems and
challenges and um you know what what
they need and for us it's also been uh
you know handing over um and sort of
exceeding um
uh some of that to them like our
community
uh
create incredible content and you look
online it's just like there's literally
hundreds of thousands of tutorials and
courses and all that sort of stuff and
um i guess you know more recently we've
um
uh we've really focused on like how do
we actually enable our community um to
achieve their goals too and so
um you know we've launched like um
uh
uh our design circle where we we we give
the community early access to new
features and you know we've got um
community members that we
like to try out products early and they
give us feedback but that also helps
them make you know content and courses
and tutorials um you know which might be
revenue streams
um i guess says you know community uh
we've also got a community of um people
around the world that actually
contribute um templates into canva now
and are running um you know uh
earning money um and an income through
creating for canvas too and so i guess
you know in the broad sense it's um you
know it's helping uh people on our
platform kind of achieve their goals um
and and then i think it's really about
you know understanding um you know each
each of those different communities that
that we have and um and sort of engaging
with with them and helping them um as
much as we can
cool
well zach thanks i wish we could get to
a few more of these questions but we'll
do it we'll do it in a follow-up session
we'll do we'll do it we'll do what works
for you um but thanks thanks for joining
us um caitlyn anything we need to do to
wrap up or are we good for this session
right now
you're good zach thank you so much jason
as always thank you and um yeah excited
we're about to kick off in san mateo so
i hope to see some of you there
thank you again zach thanks for
everything congratulations on the big
one on the latest milestone to celebrate
with schnitzel's a billion in ar and a
40 billion company from one of the very
first employees pretty cool
congratulations
thank you thanks jason
[Music]
you